---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-6108/
title: "Understanding Explanation by ExamplesUnderstanding Explanation by Examples"
---

# Understanding Explanation by ExamplesUnderstanding Explanation by Examples

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Explaining the inner workings of deep neural net- work models has received considerable attention in recent years. Researchers have developed various explanation techniques in an attempt to provide human-understandable explanations, jus- tifying a model’s decision. In this work, we perform an in- depth study of one such explanation technique – explanation-by- example. For a given test input, explanation-by-example provides the nearest matching data examples from the training data as representative examples of the model’s decision boundary. To understand its relative performance compared to other state-of- the-art explanation methods we perform a cross-analysis Amazon Mechanical Turk study. The participants were asked to compare explanation methods across applications spanning image, text, audio, and sensory domains. Among the surveyed methods, explanation-by-example was preferred in all domains except text sentiment classification. Furthermore, our initial investigation also indicates that the explanation by examples is a good detector of adversarial inputs generated using both white and black-box attacks.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Jeya Vikranth Jeyakumar (UCLA)</li>
                <li>Pengrui Quan (UCLA)</li>
                <li>Joseph Noor (UCLA)</li>
                <li>Supriyo Chakraborty (IBM US)</li>
                <li>Prudhvi Gurram (ARL)</li>
                <li>Mani Srivastava (UCLA)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Sep-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>4th Annual Fall Meeting of the DAIS ITA, 2020</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-6108-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-6108-slides">
                    <button type="submit">download presentation</button>
                </form> 
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
