---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-3921/
title: "The coevolution of social networks and cognitive dissonance"
---

# The coevolution of social networks and cognitive dissonance

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>In this paper we develop the first known model concerning the coevolution of cognitive dissonance and social networks. We outline the comprehensive motivation for the model and progress concerning implementation. The ease with which populations are susceptible to large-scale political and ideological polarisation has been well seen in numerous global events. The underlying motivations for these behaviours are complex, but common to all scenarios is the clear psychological stress experienced by those involved, emanating from conflicting attitudes, beliefs or behaviours of others. This represents a form of cognitive dissonance - the mental discomfort involved is such that individuals act to restore consonance. In this paper we develop the first known model concerning the coevolution of cognitive dissonance and social networks. We are seeking to explore the collective effects of individuals that are unable to sustain a significant relationship due to the cognitive friction from the discrepancy between their own conviction towards an issue, and the alternative views of those held by another party. For example, in extremist groups, where intolerance is embedded in group identity and members are highly fused, individuals to sever all ties that are outside the group. Other dynamics are also evident in less extreme examples, such as those driven by ideology and populism. We then outline the comprehensive motivation for the model and our experimental findings. Preliminary experimentation is presented, alongside plans to develop this further.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Walter Colombo (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Liam Turner (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Roger Whitaker (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Yarrow Dunham (Yale)</li>
                <li>Cheryl Giammanco (ARL)</li>
                <li>Darren Doyle (Dstl)</li>
                <li>Eilish Roy (Dstl)</li>
                <li>Rachel Bellamy (IBM US)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Sep-2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>Annual Fall Meeting of the DAIS ITA, 2019</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-3921-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-3921-poster">
                    <button type="submit">download poster</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
