---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-7017/
title: "3D simulation and scenario for AI research in multi-domain and coalition operations"
---

# 3D simulation and scenario for AI research in multi-domain and coalition operations

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>We provide a description of the DAIS-ITA experimentation environment with accompanying scenario. These were created to aid our research by providing a common platform upon which different projects can build. The purpose is to speed up the innovation pipeline by more closely linking research with impact. The experimentation environment is based on a 3d virtual world. We provide a variety of options for displaying, moving and interacting with objects within the world. Our focus for these interactions is interactivity, either manual or programmatic, such that DAIS research, experiments, simulations and demonstrations can be accurately modelled. There is an interface, based upon the MQTT messaging protocol, that allows input to and output from the world. The world we have created is mapped to the same location as the Anglova Scenario. We are able to use and extend the Anglova Scenario and it’s experimentation data within the world for conducting DAIS research.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Graham White (IBM UK)</li>
                <li>Dave Conway-Jones (IBM UK)</li>
                <li>Kevin Chan (ARL)</li>
                <li>Alun Preece (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>James Harryman (Dstl)</li>
                <li>Matthew Cox (Dstl)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Apr-2021</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Multi-Domain Operations Applications III, SPIE DCS, 2021</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <form method="get" action="https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/conference-proceedings-of-spie/11746/1174620/3D-simulation-and-scenario-for-AI-research-in-multi-domain/10.1117/12.2585117.short?SSO=1">
                <button type="submit">download paper</button>
            </form>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
