---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-3912/
title: "Representing and Learning Grammars in ASP with Domain-specific Scoring Functions"
---

# Representing and Learning Grammars in ASP with Domain-specific Scoring Functions

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>
            Learning generative policy models can be seen as analogous to the general problem of learning context-sensitive grammars. This paper provides theoretical contributions in the areas of context-sensitive grammars (CSGs) and related machine learning. Specifically, we introduce a new class of CSGs, called Answer Set Grammars (ASGs), which extend context-free grammars by allowing annotations on production rules, written in Answer Set Programming (ASP). We investigate the complexity of various classes of ASG with respect to deciding wether (i) a given string belongs to the language of an ASG and (ii) the language of an ASG is non-empty. We introduce an algorithm for learning the annotations of an ASG.
            To scale up the applicability of our learning algorithm we also present a notion of domain-specific scoring functions applicable to logic-based machine learning in general. We present an efficient mechanism for constructing a small subset of the search space that is guaranteed to contain at least one optimal solution with respect to a given scoring function. We show that our FastLAS algorithm, which uses this efficient mechanism, outperforms state-of-the-art logic-based machine learning systems in terms of running time, and is able to find the optimal solution of a task with respect to a given scoring function.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Mark Law (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Alessandra Russo (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Elisa Bertino (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Seraphin Calo (IBM US)</li>
                <li>Dinesh Verma (IBM US)</li>
                <li>Jorge Lobo</li>
                <li>Krysia Broda (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Greg Cirincione (ARL)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Sep-2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>Annual Fall Meeting of the DAIS ITA, 2019</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-3912-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-3912-slides">
                    <button type="submit">download presentation</button>
                </form>
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-3912-poster">
                    <button type="submit">download poster</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
