---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-4077/
title: "Synthesizing Images From Spatio-Temporal Representations Using Spike-Based Backpropagation"
---

# Synthesizing Images From Spatio-Temporal Representations Using Spike-Based Backpropagation

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Spiking neural networks (SNNs) offer a promising alternative to current artificial neural networks to enable low-power event-driven neuromorphic hardware. Spike-based neuromorphic applications require processing and extracting meaningful information from spatio-temporal data, represented as series of spike trains over time. In this paper, we propose a method to synthesize images from multiple modalities in a spike-based environment. We use spiking auto-encoders to convert image and audio inputs into compact spatio-temporal representations that is then decoded for image synthesis. For this, we use a direct training algorithm that computes loss on the membrane potential of the output layer and back-propagates it by using a sigmoid approximation of the neurons activation function to enable differentiability. The spiking autoencoders are benchmarked on MNIST and Fashion-MNIST and achieve very low reconstruction loss, comparable to ANNs. Then, spiking autoencoders are trained to learn meaningful spatio-temporal representations of the data, across the two modalities—audio and visual. We synthesize images from audio in a spike-based environment by first generating, and then utilizing such shared multi-modal spatio-temporal representations. Our audio to image synthesis model is tested on the task of converting TI-46 digits audio samples to MNIST images. We are able to synthesize images with high fidelity and the model achieves competitive performance against ANNs.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Deboleena Roy (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Priyadarshini Panda (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Kaushik Roy (Purdue)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Jun-2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>Frontiers in neuroscience, 13, 621. [<a href="https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2019.00621/full">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-4077-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
