---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-6075/
title: "Optimizing the efficiency of collective decision making in groups"
---

# Optimizing the efficiency of collective decision making in groups

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>The complexity of modern military operations create a demand for efficient collaborative decision making and problem solving. Additionally, as military units operate in increasingly dynamic environments, the ability to respond to changing cir- cumstances becomes paramount for mission success. An effective response rests on correct dissemination and transfer of infor- mation across the command and control structure, and thus is critically linked to the network of human interactions. In this paper, we take an agent-based modeling approach to collective problem solving. We investigate three key factors affecting the performance in collaborative environments: (1) the structure of network used to share information between agents, (2) the search strategies adopted by agents, and (3) the complexity of problems facing the group. In particular we study how the trade-off between exploitation of known solutions and exploration for novel ones is related to the efficiency of collective search. Additionally we consider the role of agent behavior: propensity for risk-taking and trustworthiness, as well as the dynamic nature of social connections. Finally, we outline the directions for future work regarding the efficiency of problem solving on military-like command and control structures.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Malgorzata Turalska (ARL)</li>
                <li>Rosie Lickorish (IBM UK)</li>
                <li>Geeth de Mel (IBM UK)</li>
                <li>Liam Turner (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Roger Whitaker (Cardiff)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Sep-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>4th Annual Fall Meeting of the DAIS ITA, 2020</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://dais-ita.org/sites/default/files/5343.pdf">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
                <form method="get" action="https://dais-ita.org/sites/default/files/5343_slides.pdf">
                    <button type="submit">download presentation</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
