---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-4088/
title: "Dynamic Service Migration in Mobile Edge Computing Based on Markov Decision Process"
---

# Dynamic Service Migration in Mobile Edge Computing Based on Markov Decision Process

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>In mobile edge computing, local edge servers can host cloud-based services, which reduces network overhead and latency but requires service migrations as users move to new locations. It is challenging to make migration decisions optimally because of the uncertainty in such a dynamic cloud environment. In this paper, we formulate the service migration problem as a Markov decision process (MDP). Our formulation captures general cost models and provides a mathematical framework to design optimal service migration policies. In order to overcome the complexity associated with computing the optimal policy, we approximate the underlying state space by the distance between the user and service locations. We show that the resulting MDP is exact for the uniform 1-D user mobility, while it provides a close approximation for uniform 2-D mobility with a constant additive error. We also propose a new algorithm and a numerical technique for computing the optimal solution, which is significantly faster than traditional methods based on the standard value or policy iteration. We illustrate the application of our solution in practical scenarios where many theoretical assumptions are relaxed. Our evaluations based on real-world mobility traces of San Francisco taxis show the superior performance of the proposed solution compared to baseline solutions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Shiqiang Wang (IBM US)</li>
                <li>Rahul Urgaonkar</li>
                <li>Murtaza Zafer (IBM US)</li>
                <li>Ting He (PSU)</li>
                <li>Kevin Chan (ARL)</li>
                <li>Kin Leung (Imperial)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>May-2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking ( Volume: 27 , Issue: 3 , June 2019 ) [<a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8727722">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-4088-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
