---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-5639/
title: "Deep Spiking Neural Network: Energy Efficiency Through Time based Coding"
---

# Deep Spiking Neural Network: Energy Efficiency Through Time based Coding

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) are promising for enabling low-power event-driven data analytics. The best performing SNNs for image recognition tasks are obtained by converting a trained deep learn- ing Analog Neural Network (ANN) composed of Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation to SNN consisting of Integrate-and-Fire (IF) neurons with ”proper” firing thresholds. However, this has come at the cost of accuracy loss and higher inference latency due to lack of a notion of time. In this work, we propose an ANN to SNN conversion methodology that uses a time-based coding scheme, named Temporal-Switch- Coding (TSC), and a corresponding TSC spiking neuron model. Each input image pixel is presented using two spikes and the timing between the two spiking instants is proportional to the pixel intensity. The real- valued ReLU activations in ANN are encoded using the spike-times of the TSC neurons in the converted TSC-SNN. At most two memory accesses and two addition operations are performed for each synapse during the whole inference, which significantly improves the SNN energy efficiency. We demonstrate the proposed TSC-SNN for VGG-16, ResNet-20 and ResNet-34 SNNs on datasets including CIFAR-10 (93.63% top-1), CIFAR-100 (70.97% top-1) and ImageNet (73.46% top-1 accuracy). It surpasses the best inference accuracy of the converted rate-encoded SNN with 7-14.5× lesser inference latency, and 30-60× fewer addition operations and memory accesses per inference across datasets.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Bing Han (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Kaushik Roy (Purdue)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Aug-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>16th European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) 2020 [<a href="https://eccv2020.eu/posters/">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://eccv2020.eu/posters/">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
