---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-3103/
title: "Frontier: Resilient Edge Processing for the Internet of Things"
---

# Frontier: Resilient Edge Processing for the Internet of Things

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>In an edge deployment model, Internet-of-Things (IoT) applications, e.g. for building automation or video surveillance, must process data locally on IoT devices without relying on permanent connectivity to a cloud backend. The ability to harness the combined resources of multiple IoT devices for computation is influenced by the quality of wireless network connectivity. An open challenge is how practical edge-based IoT applications can be realised that are robust to changes in network bandwidth between IoT devices, due to interference and intermittent connectivity. We present Frontier, a distributed and resilient edge processing platform for IoT devices. The key idea is to express data-intensive IoT applications as continuous data-parallel streaming queries and to improve query throughput in an unreliable wireless network by exploiting network path diversity: a query includes operator replicas at different IoT nodes, which increases possible network paths for data. Frontier dynamically routes stream data to operator replicas based on network path conditions. Nodes probe path throughput and use backpressure stream routing to decide on transmission rates, while exploiting multiple operator replicas for data-parallelism. If a node loses network connectivity, a transient disconnection recovery mechanism reprocesses the lost data. Our experimental evaluation of Frontier shows that network path diversity improves throughput by 1.3×–2.8× for different IoT applications, while being resilient to intermittent network connectivity.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Dan OKeeffe (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Theodoros Salonidis (IBM US)</li>
                <li>Peter Pietzuch (Imperial)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Jun-2018</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment VLDB Endowment Hompage archive Volume 11 Issue 10, June 2018 Pages 1178-1191 [<a href="https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3242937">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
