---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-8025/
title: "Learning from optimal caching for content delivery"
---

# Learning from optimal caching for content delivery

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Content delivery networks (CDNs) distribute much of today's Internet traffic by caching and serving users' contents requested. A major goal of a CDN is to improve hit probabilities of its caches, thereby reducing WAN traffic and user-perceived latency. In this paper, we develop a new approach for caching in CDNs that learns from optimal caching for decision making. To attain this goal, we first propose HRO to compute the upper bound on optimal caching in an online manner, and then leverage HRO to inform future content admission and eviction. We call this new cache design LHR. We show that LHR is efficient since it includes a detection mechanism for model update, an auto-tuned threshold-based model for content admission with a simple eviction rule. We have implemented an LHR simulator as well as a prototype within an Apache Traffic Server and the Caffeine, respectively. Our experimental results using four production CDN traces show that LHR consistently outperforms state of the arts with an increase in hit probability of up to 9% and a reduction in WAN traffic of up to 15% compared to a typical production CDN cache. Our evaluation of the LHR prototype shows that it only imposes a moderate overhead and can be deployed on today's CDN servers.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Gang Yan</li>
                <li>Jian Li</li>
                <li>Don Towsley (UMass)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Dec-2021</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>CoNEXT '21: Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on emerging Networking EXperiments and Technologies</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <form method="get" action="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3485983.3494855">
                <button type="submit">download paper</button>
            </form>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
