---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-4727/
title: "Defending with Shared Resources on a Network"
---

# Defending with Shared Resources on a Network

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>In this paper we consider a defending problem on a network. In the model, the defender holds a total defending resource of R, which can be distributed to the nodes of the network. The defending resource allocated to a node can be shared by its neighbors. There is a weight associated with every edge that represents the efficiency defending resources are shared between neighboring nodes. We consider the setting when each attack can affect not only the target node, but its neighbors as well. Assuming that nodes in the network have different treasures to defend and different defending requirements, the defender aims at allocating the defending resource to the nodes to minimize the loss due to attack. We give polynomial time exact algorithms for two important special cases of the network defending problem. For the case when an attack can only affect the target node, we present an LP-based exact algorithm. For the case when defending resources cannot be shared, we present a max-flow-based exact algorithm. We show that the general problem is NP-hard, and we give a 2-approximation algorithm based on LP-rounding. Moreover, by giving a matching lower bound of 2 on the integrality gap on the LP relaxation, we show that our rounding is tight.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Minming Li</li>
                <li>Long Tran-Thanh (Southampton)</li>
                <li>Xiaowei Wu</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Feb-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>The Thirty-Fourth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-20)</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-4727-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
