---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-5732/
title: "Online Matrix Completion with Side Information"
---

# Online Matrix Completion with Side Information

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>We give an online algorithm and prove novel mistake and regret bounds for online binary matrix completion with side information. The mistake bounds we prove ̃ are of the form O( D ). The term 1 is analogous to the usual margin term in γ2 γ2 SVM (perceptron) bounds. More specifically, if we assume that there is some factorization of the underlying m × n matrix into P Q⊤ where the rows of P are interpreted as “classifiers” in Rd and the rows of Q as “instances” in Rd, then γ is is the maximum (normalized) margin overall factorizations PQ⊤ consistent with the observed matrix. The quasi-dimension term D measures the quality of side information. In the presence of vacuous side information, D = m + n. However, if the side information is predictive of the underlying factorization of the matrix, then in an ideal case, D ∈ O(k + l) where k is the number of distinct row factors and l is the number of distinct column factors. We additionally provide a generalization of our algorithm to the inductive setting. In this setting, we provide an example where the side information is not directly specified in advance. For this example, the quasi-dimension D is now bounded by O(k2 + l2).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Mark Herbster (UCL)</li>
                <li>Stephen Pasteris (UCL)</li>
                <li>Lisa Tse (UCL)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>May-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td> [<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.07255">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.07255">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Variants</td>
            <td>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="${varId}">doc-5941</a></li>
                </ul>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
