---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-8037/
title: "Resource Sharing in the Edge: A Distributed Bargaining-Theoretic Approach"
---

# Resource Sharing in the Edge: A Distributed Bargaining-Theoretic Approach

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>The growing demand for edge computing resources, particularly due to increasing popularity of Internet of Things (IoT), and distributed machine/deep learning applications poses a significant challenge. On the one hand, certain edge service providers (ESPs) may not have sufficient resources to satisfy their applications according to the associated service-level agreements. On the other hand, some ESPs may have additional unused resources. In this paper, we propose a resource-sharing framework that allows different ESPs to optimally utilize their resources and improve the satisfaction level of applications subject to constraints such as communication cost for sharing resources across ESPs. Our framework considers that different ESPs have their own objectives for utilizing their resources, thus resulting in a multi-objective optimization problem. We present an N-person \emph{Nash Bargaining Solution} (NBS) for resource allocation and sharing among ESPs with \emph{Pareto} optimality guarantee. Furthermore, we propose a \emph{distributed}, primal-dual algorithm to obtain the NBS by proving that the strong-duality property holds for the resultant resource sharing optimization problem. Using synthetic and real-world data traces, we show numerically that the proposed NBS based framework not only enhances the ability to satisfy applications' resource demands, but also improves utilities of different ESPs.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Faheem Zafari (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Prithwish Basu (BBN)</li>
                <li>Kin Leung (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Jian Li</li>
                <li>Ananthram Swami (ARL)</li>
                <li>Don Towsley (UMass)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Jul-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <form method="get" action="https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04229">
                <button type="submit">download paper</button>
            </form>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
