---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-5586/
title: "Biologically Plausible Class Discrimination Based Recurrent Neural Network Training for Motor Pattern Generation"
---

# Biologically Plausible Class Discrimination Based Recurrent Neural Network Training for Motor Pattern Generation

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Biological brain stores massive amount of information. Inspired by features of the biological memory, we propose an algorithm to efficiently store different classes of spatio-temporal information in a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN). A given spatio-temporal input triggers a neuron firing pattern, known as an attractor, and it conveys information about the class to which the input belongs. These attractors are the basic elements of the memory in our RNN. Preparing a set of good attractors is the key to efficiently storing temporal information in an RNN. We achieve this by means of enhancing the “separation” and “approximation” properties associated with the attractors, during the RNN training. We furthermore elaborate how these attractors can trigger an action via the readout in the RNN, similar to the sensory motor action processing in the cerebellum cortex. We show how different voice commands by different speakers trigger hand drawn impressions of the spoken words, by means of our separation and approximation based learning. The method further recognizes the gender of the speaker. The method is evaluated on the TI-46 speech data corpus, and we have achieved 98.6% classification accuracy on the TI-46 digit corpus.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Parami Wijesinghe (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Chamika Liyanagedera (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Kaushik Roy (Purdue)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Aug-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>Frontiers in Neuroscience [<a href="https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2020.00772/full">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-5586-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
