---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-5934/
title: "Line-Speed and Scalable Intrusion Detection at the Network Edge via Federated Learning"
---

# Line-Speed and Scalable Intrusion Detection at the Network Edge via Federated Learning

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Intrusion detection through classifying incoming packets is a crucial functionality at the network edge, requiring accuracy, efficiency and scalability at the same time, introducing a great challenge. On the one hand, traditional table-based switch functions have limited capacity to identify complicated network attack behaviors. On the other hand, machine learning based methods providing high accuracy are widely used for packet classification, but they typically require packets to be forwarded to an extra host and therefore increase the network latency. To overcome these limitations, in this paper we propose an architecture with programmable data plane switches. We show that Binarized Neural Networks (BNNs) can be implemented as switch functions at the network edge classifying incoming packets at the line speed of the switches. To train BNNs in a scalable manner, we adopt a federated learning approach that keeps the communication overheads of training small even for scenarios involving many edge network domains. We next develop a prototype using the P4 language and perform evaluations. The results demonstrate that a multi-fold improvement in latency and communication overheads can be achieved compared to state-of- the-art learning architectures.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Qiaofeng Qin (Yale)</li>
                <li>Konstantinos Poularakis (Yale)</li>
                <li>Kin Leung (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Leandros Tassiulas (Yale)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Jun-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP) Networking 2020 Conference [<a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9142704">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9142704">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
