---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-5465/
title: "The Centrality of Edges based on their role in Induced Triads"
---

# The Centrality of Edges based on their role in Induced Triads

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>The prevalence of induced triads play an important role in characterising complex networks. In this paper we introduce a new local edge-centrality measure that signifies the importance an edge plays within induced triads for a directed network. We observe that an edge can play one of two roles in providing connectivity within a particular triad, based on whether the edge supports connectivity to the third node or not. We call these alternative states overt and covert. As an edge may play alternative roles in different induced triads, this allows us to assess the local importance of an edge concerning global connectivity. We explore this concept by introducing a new minimum weight path problem applied to Erdos-Renyi and scale-free networks. We also show how the concept can be used to profile and associate diverse real-world networks. We observe that this approach contributes a simple alternative for aspects of motif-based analysis in network categorisation.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Lauren Hudson (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Roger Whitaker (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Stuart Allen (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Liam Turner (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Diane Felmlee (PSU)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Sep-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>4th Annual Fall Meeting of the DAIS ITA, 2020</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-5465-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-5465-slides">
                    <button type="submit">download presentation</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
