---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-5956/
title: "Neuroplex: Learning to Detect Complex Events in Sensor Networks through Knowledge Injection"
---

# Neuroplex: Learning to Detect Complex Events in Sensor Networks through Knowledge Injection

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Despite the remarkable success in a broad set of sensing appli- cations, state-of-the-art deep learning techniques struggle with complex reasoning tasks across a distributed set of sensors. Unlike recognizing transient complex activities (e.g., human activities such as walking or running) from a single sensor, detecting more complex events with larger spatial and temporal dependencies across multi- ple sensors is extremely difficult, e.g., utilizing a hospital's sensor network to detect whether a nurse is following a sanitary protocol as they traverse from patient to patient. Training a more compli- cated model requires a larger amount of data–which is unrealistic considering complex events rarely happen in nature. Moreover, neu- ral networks struggle with reasoning about serial, aperiodic events separated by large quantities in the spatial-temporal dimensions. We propose Neuroplex, a neural-symbolic framework that learns to perform complex reasoning on raw sensory data with the help of high-level, injected human knowledge. Neuroplex decomposes the entire complex learning space into explicit perception and rea- soning layers, i.e., by maintaining neural networks to perform low- level perception tasks and neurally reconstructed reasoning models to perform high-level, explainable reasoning. After training the neurally reconstructed reasoning model using human knowledge, Neuroplex allows effective end-to-end training of perception mod- els with an additional semantic loss using only sparse, high-level annotations. Our experiments and evaluation show that Neuroplex is capable of learning to efficiently and effectively detect complex events–which cannot be handled by state-of-the-art neural network models. During the training, Neuroplex not only reduces data an- notation requirements by 100x, but also significantly speeds up the learning process for complex event detection by 4x.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Tianwei Xing (UCLA)</li>
                <li>Luis Garcia (UCLA)</li>
                <li>Marc Vilamala (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Federico Cerutti (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Lance Kaplan (ARL)</li>
                <li>Alun Preece (Cardiff)</li>
                <li>Mani Srivastava (UCLA)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Nov-2020</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems [<a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3384419.3431158">link</a>]</td>
    </tr>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2">
                <form method="get" action="https://ibm.box.com/v/doc-5956-paper">
                    <button type="submit">download paper</button>
                </form>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
