---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-8038/
title: "Robust Solutions to Constrained Optimization Problems by LSTM Networks"
---

# Robust Solutions to Constrained Optimization Problems by LSTM Networks

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Many technical issues for communications and computer infrastructures, including resource sharing, network management and distributed analytics, can be formulated as optimization problems. Gradient-based iterative algorithms have been widely utilized to solve these problems. Much research focuses on improving the iteration convergence. However, when system parameters change, it requires a new solution from the iterative methods. Therefore, it is helpful to develop machine-learning solution frameworks that can quickly produce solutions over a range of system parameters. We propose here a learning approach to solve non-convex, constrained optimization problems. Two coupled Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) networks are used to find the optimal solution. The advantages of this new framework include: (1) near optimal solution for a given problem instance can be obtained in very few iterations (time steps) during the inference process, (2) the learning approach allows selections of various hyper-parameters to achieve desirable tradeoffs between the training time and the solution quality, and (3) the coupled-LSTM networks can be trained using system parameters with distributions different from those used during inference to generate solutions, thus enhancing the robustness of the learning technique. Numerical experiments using a dataset from Alibaba reveal that the relative discrepancy between the generated solution and the optimum is less than 1% and 0.1% after 2 and 12 iterations, respectively.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Zheyu Chen (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Kin Leung (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Shiqiang Wang (IBM US)</li>
                <li>Leandros Tassiulas (Yale)</li>
                <li>Kevin Chan (ARL)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Nov-2021</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>MILCOM 2021 - 2021 IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), 2021, pp. 503-508</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <form method="get" action="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9652922">
                <button type="submit">download paper</button>
            </form>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
