---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-8029/
title: "Noise Resilient Leaky Integrate-and-re Neuron Based on Multi-domain Spintronic Devices"
---

# Noise Resilient Leaky Integrate-and-re Neuron Based on Multi-domain Spintronic Devices

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>The capability of emulating neural functionalities efficiently in hardware is crucial for building neuromorphic computing systems. While various types of neuro-mimetic devices have been investigated, it remains challenging to provide a compact device that can emulate spiking neurons. In this work, we propose a non-volatile spin-based device for efficiently emulating a leaky integrate-and-fire neuron. By incorporating an exchange-coupled composite free layer in spin-orbit torque magnetic tunnel junctions, multi-domain magnetization switching dynamics is exploited to realize gradual accumulation of membrane potential for a leaky integrate-and-fire neuron with compact footprints. The proposed device offers significantly improved scalability compared with previously proposed spin-based neuro-mimetic implementations while exhibiting high energy efficiency and good controllability. Moreover, the proposed neuron device exhibits a varying leak constant and a varying membrane resistance that are both dependent on the magnitude of the membrane potential. Interestingly, we demonstrate that such device-inspired dynamic behaviors can be incorporated to construct more robust spiking neural network models, and find improved resiliency against various types of noise injection scenarios. The proposed spintronic neuro-mimetic devices may potentially open up exciting opportunities for the development of efficient and robust neuro-inspired computational hardware.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Cheng Wang (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Chankyu Lee (Purdue)</li>
                <li>Kaushik Roy (Purdue)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Feb-2022</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <form method="get" action="https://assets.researchsquare.com/files/rs-1300648/v1_covered.pdf?c=1643917221">
                <button type="submit">download paper</button>
            </form>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
