---
layout: splash
permalink: /doc-7003/
title: "Scalable Non-observational Predicate Learning in ASP"
---

# Scalable Non-observational Predicate Learning in ASP

<table>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Abstract</td>
        <td>Recently, novel ILP systems under the answer set semantics have been proposed, some of which are robust to noise and scalable over large hypothesis spaces. One such system is FastLAS, which is significantly faster than other state-of-the-art ASPbased ILP systems. FastLAS is, however, only capable of Observational Predicate Learning (OPL), where the learned hypothesis defines predicates that are directly observed in the examples. It cannot learn knowledge that is indirectly observable, such as learning causes of observed events. This class of problems, known as non-OPL, is known to be difficult to handle in the context of non-monotonic semantics. Solving non-OPL learning tasks whilst preserving scalability is a challenging open problem.<br>We address this problem with a new abductive method for translating examples of a non-OPL task to a set of examples, called possibilities, such that the original example is covered iff at least one of the possibilities is covered. This new method allows an ILP system capable of performing OPL tasks to be “upgraded” to solve non-OPL tasks. In particular, we present our new FastNonOPL system, which upgrades FastLAS with the new possibility generation. We compare it to other state-ofthe-art ASP-based ILP systems capable of solving non-OPL tasks, showing that FastNonOPL is significantly faster, and in many cases more accurate, than these other systems.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authors</td>
        <td>
            <ul>
                <li>Mark Law (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Alessandra Russo (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Krysia Broda (Imperial)</li>
                <li>Elisa Bertino (Purdue)</li>
            </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Aug-2021</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Venue</td>
        <td>Proceedings of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-21)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <form method="get" action="https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2021/0267.pdf">
                <button type="submit">download paper</button>
            </form>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
